# Automatic-Street-Lights-With-Intensity-Control
EXISTING STREET LIGHT SYSTEMS

With the spread of power distribution systems in developed countries in the 20th-century street lights became ubiquitous. In today's scenario, the majority of street lights use high-intensity discharge (HID) lamps. HIDs produce light by means of an electric arc between tungsten electrodes housed inside a translucent or transparent fused quartz or fused alumina arc tube. Most HID lamps produce significant UV radiation and require UV-blocking filters to prevent UV-induced degradation of lamp fixture components and fading of dyed items illuminated by the lamp [1]. Exposure to HID lamps operating with faulty or absent UV-blocking filters causes injury to humans and animals, such as sunburn and arc eye. Many HID lamps are designed to quickly extinguish if their outer UV-shielding glass envelope is broken [1]. As of 2017, globally 70% of all electricity was generated by burning fossil fuels [1], a source of air pollution and greenhouse gases, and also globally there are approximately 300 million street lights using that electricity [1]. Also, in urban areas, street lights cause light pollution that results in the migration of many bird species. So there is an urgent need to find out innovative solutions to make the street lights more efficient and less damaging to the environment.

PROPOSED SYSTEM

In the proposed system the switching of street lights is controlled automatically as per the detection and motion of vehicles/ pedestrians. Also, the lamps are incorporated with light sensitive resistors that activate the street lights when light is or is not needed: dusk, dawn, or the onset of dark weather. Additionally, with the help of the photo sensitive resistors the intensity of the street lights can be automatically modulated as per the ambient light conditions. 

All the signal flow and the control operation will be performed by the Arduino Uno Microcontroller Board. The automatic control of street light switching is based on comparing the input values to the Arduino Uno from HC-SR04 Ultrasonic Sensors and Light Detection Resistor (LDR) to the standard values specified in the code.

The streetlights will get triggered only when a vehicle/pedestrian is detected by the system.  This will reduce the electricity consumption due to unnecessary illumination of the streets and roads. Also, by automatically controlling the intensity of street lights a significant amount of power can be saved as the street light do not have to work at maximum power output at all times.

Citation

[1]  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/High-intensity_discharge_lamp


